A minor release of [shapeless](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless).
The main changes include,

* Iso is a generalization of the previous HListIso and can now represent an
  isomorphism between arbitrary types.

* The generic Zipper is applicable to any type with a published Iso with an
  HList, and now has up and down traversals.

* HList Prepend and ReversePrepend now have special handling for the HNil case,
  allowing them to be applied without implicit witnesses which can be useful in
  some scenarios (thanks to @sirthias).

* Added apply factory methods to the HList companion object allowing HLists to
  be created using Scala collections conventions.

* Several new type classes witnessing properties of, or relations between,
  HList types,
    * The Mapped type class which witnesses that the result of wrapping each
      element of an HList with a given type constructor.
    * The Comapped type class which witnesses that the result of stripping a
      given type constructor off element of an HList.
    * The NatTRel type class which witnesses that a natural transformation
      exists between two HLists.
    * The LubConstraint type class which witnesses that every element of an
      HList is a subtype of a given type.

* Added compose and andThen to Poly1.

* Div and Mod added for type level Nats (thanks to @tixxit).   

* Several new examples and proofs of concept,
    * Runtime resolution of type class instances via [lightweight staging](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/blob/master/examples/src/main/scala/shapeless/examples/staging.scala).
    * Non-diverging [type-level unfold](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/blob/master/examples/src/main/scala/shapeless/examples/unfold.scala).
    * Search on [arbitrarily nested](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/blob/master/examples/src/main/scala/shapeless/examples/deepsearch.scala) case classes, tuples, and lists (thanks to @travisbrown).
    * Faux [kind-polymorphism](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/blob/master/examples/src/main/scala/shapeless/examples/kindpoly.scala). 

* Some organizational and build improvements,
    * Scala 2.9.x support is now continuted on the scala-2.9.x branch.
    * The Locally modified copy of paulp/sbt-extras is now redundant so has
      been removed.
