This is the fifth release candidate for [shapeless-2.2.0][shapeless]. 
These release notes provide a summary of changes since shapeless 2.1.0.
shapeless 2.2.0 should be source and binary compatible with shapeless
2.1.0, and for migration from shapeless 2.0.0 the earlier
[migration guide from shapeless 2.0.0 to 2.1.0][migration] is still
applicable and is available on the [shapeless wiki][wiki].

Experience with updating [shapeless-contrib][contrib] to shapeless 2.2.0
has led to some significant changes being made since RC4, and also
opened up a window for a few low-risk additions and bug fixes,

* A mechanism providing greater control over the implicit priority of
  derived orphan type class instances has been added. This finally
  allows shapeless-contrib to be updated to use shapeless-2.2.0.

* Generic derivation for coproducts now correctly handles cases where
  the type parameters of constructors is a subset and/or permutation of
  the type parameters of the data type. This allows correct type class
  derivation for types like Cat's `Xor` and `Ior`, and Scalaz's
  disjunction.

* A mechanism allowing expensive implicit definitions to be cached
  simply has been added.

* A number of tests have been made more portable so that they don't
  fail when run under Scala.js due to spurious platform-specifics.

* The `ToList` and `ToTraversable` are now serializable so long as a
  serializable instances of `CanBuildFrom` is available.

* A `Max` type class has been added for `Nat` types.

* A `fields` method has been added to records and unions.

* There are now `Generic` instances for ADTs with constructors which
  are included via multiple inheritance paths.

* `Witness` instances are now available for the singleton types of
  stable values.

* The test for "case-class-likeness" has been tightened to exclude some
  unexpected types (notably arrays).

* A hygiene bug in `Typeable` has been fixed.

* A bug in the handling of singleton types in `Generic1` was fixed.

Since the shapeless 2.2.0-RC3 release a bug was found and fixed in the
new SingletonProductArgs implementation.

Since the shapeless 2.2.0-RC2 release a bug was found and fixed in the
new SingletonProductArgs implementation.

Since the shapeless 2.2.0-RC1 release the following changes have been
made,

* If you are using Scala 2.10.x it is no longer necessary to provide an
  explicit Scala version suffix for your shapeless dependency. You must
  still ensure that you are using Scala version 2.10.2 or greater, with
  Scala 2.10.5 (or switching to 2.11.x) strongly recommended.

* All the major types and type classes now extend Serializable for
  compatibility with libraries and systems which use Java
  serialization.

* A mechanism to replace Scala's now deprecated auto-tupling has been
  added via the [ProductArgs][prodargs] and SingletonProductArgs traits.

* A number of issues relating to the generation of Generic instances
  for method local case classes have been fixed.

The earlier 2.2.0-RC1 release included a number of [bug fixes][fixes]
and the following new features and enhancements,

* Added support for derivation of type classes for higher-kinded types.
  See in particular the new [example][functor] illustrating the
  application of this to the automatic derivation of Functor type class
  instances for ADTs.

* Added support for Generic representation of types with repeated
  (ie. vararg) constructor arguments.

* Added a useful toString to instances of the Typeable type class.

* Added a useful toString to Sized containers.

* Improved the CSV serialization example.

* Reorganized the SBT project modules.
  The "shapeless-" prefix has been dropped from all the module names
  and it is now possible to drop into the Scala REPL with shapeless
  on the classpath using just the "console" command.

A big "Thank You!" to everyone who has contributed to this release,

* Alexandre Archambault ([@alxarchambault](https://twitter.com/alxarchambault))
* Dale Wijnand ([@dwijnand](https://twitter.com/dwijnand))
* Jean-Remi Desjardins ([@jrdesjardins](https://twitter.com/jrdesjardins))
* Johnny Everson ([@johnny_everson](https://twitter.com/johnny_everson))
* Simon Hafner ([@reactormonk](https://twitter.com/reactormonk))
* Vladimir Matveev ([@netvlm](https://twitter.com/netvlm))

[shapeless]: https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless
[migration]: https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/wiki/Migration-guide:-shapeless-2.0.0-to-2.1.0
[wiki]: https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/wiki
[prodargs]: https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/blob/master/core/src/main/scala/shapeless/hlists.scala#L124
[fixes]: https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/issues?q=milestone%3Ashapeless-2.2.0+is%3Aclosed
[functor]: https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless/blob/master/examples/src/main/scala/shapeless/examples/functor.scala

